Add warmup peak memory estimation via `--max-num-batched-tokens` (#67)
alvarobartt/hf-mem: README.md

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/alvarobartt/hf-mem/resolve/main/experimental.png" />

## Warmup peak memory

> By passing `--max-num-batched-tokens`, you can estimate the **peak activation memory** during a single warmup forward pass — analogous to what vLLM measures in its `profile_run` at startup or what TEI measures during its warmup. This is the third memory component reported alongside weights and KV cache, and is included in `total_memory`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By passing `--max-num-batched-tokens`, you can also estimate the **peak activation memory** during a single warmup forward pass, analogous to what vLLM measures in its `profile_run` at startup or what Text Embeddings Inference measures during its warmup phase..
```

```bash

> uvx hf-mem --model-id meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct --max-num-batched-tokens 8192

Reviewer: Can you open a PR at https://huggingface.co/datasets/alvarobartt/hf-mem with the image `peak-memory.png` as the rest of the command output images? If preferred, let me know and I'll do it myself.

Author: https://huggingface.co/datasets/alvarobartt/hf-mem/discussions/3#6a05e694af85d32f59a8c4ba
Done!

Author: @alvarobartt if you can do it that'd be great, otherwise I can also pick this up — let me know.

```

> This flag is **independent of `--experimental`**: it works for any supported architecture (causal LMs, masked LMs, sequence/token classifiers, base encoders, Sentence Transformers) without needing the experimental gate. The existing `--batch-size` is reused as `max_num_seqs` to size the LM head spike. GGUF files are not supported — the flag is silently ignored when combined with `--gguf-file`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`--max-num-batched-tokens` works for any of CLM, MLM, SeqCls, TokCls, Encoders, or Sentence Transformers. It can be combined along with `--batch-size`, which is interpreted as `max_num_seqs` to size the language model head spike.

> [!WARNING]
> This estimation just applies for Safetensors models and not GGUF.
```

> This flag is **independent of `--experimental`**: it works for any supported architecture (causal LMs, masked LMs, sequence/token classifiers, base encoders, Sentence Transformers) without needing the experimental gate. The existing `--batch-size` is reused as `max_num_seqs` to size the LM head spike. GGUF files are not supported — the flag is silently ignored when combined with `--gguf-file`.

Author: Already aligned — alvarobartt's README rewrite (commits f8c7c8f / 85cd8cc / 193b172) replaced the "silently ignored" wording with a `> [!WARNING]` admonition that says GGUF isn't supported, which matches the actual CLI behavior (warns + skips).

> The estimate models PyTorch's caching-allocator behavior (persistent residual stream + largest transient) from `config.json` fields. It excludes runtime-discovered components such as NCCL buffers and FlashAttention kernel workspaces, so the real-world peak may be 10-30% higher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This estimation mimics PyTorch's caching-allocator behavior (persistent residual stream + largest transient), inferred from `config.json`. It excludes runtime-discovered components such as NCCL buffers or FlashAttention kernels, among others. Bear that in mind as the real-world peak may be ~10 to 30 percent higher.
```
